+++ 
title = "Bhaja Re Bhaja Re Amar Mana"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
B


Song
Name: Bhaja Re Bhaja Re Amar


Official
Name: Bhajan Gita Song 1


Author:

Bhaktivinoda
Thakura


Book
Name: 
Gitavali


Language:

Bengali


 








অ








 


LYRICS:


(1)


bhaja
re bhaja re āmār mana ati manda


(bhajan
vinā gati nāi re)


(bhaja)
braja-bane rādhā-kṛṣṇa-caraṇāravinda


(jÃ±āna-karma
parihariÂ’ re)


(bhaja)
(braja-bane rādhā-kṛṣṇa)


 


(2)


(bhaja)
gaura-gadādharādwaita guru-nityānanda


(gaura-kṛṣṇae
abheda jeneÂ’ re)


(guru
kṛṣṇa-preṣṭha jeneÂ’ re)


(smara)
śrīnivās, haridās, murāri, mukunda


(gaura-preme
smara, smara re)


(smara)
(śrīnivās haridāse)


 


(3)


(smara)
rūpa-sanātana-jīva-raghunātha-dvandva


(kṛṣṇa-bhajan
jadi korbe re)


(rūpa-sanātane
smara)


(smara)
rāghava-gopāla-bhaṭṭa swarūpa-rāmānanda


(kṛṣṇa-prema
jadi cāo re)


(swarūpa-rāmānande
smara)


 


(4)


(smara)
goṣṭhi-saha karṇapūra, sena śivānanda


(ajasra
smara, smara re)


(goṣṭhi-saha
karnapūre)


(smara)
rūpānuga sādhu-jana bhajana-ānanda


(braje
bās jadi cāo re)


(rūpānuga
sādhu smara)


 


TRANSLATION


1) My
dear mind, how foolish you are! Oh just worship, oh just worship the lotus feet
of Radha and Krsna in the forests of Vraja! (Oh, without such worship there is
no means of spiritual advancement!) Just worship the lotus feet of Radha and
Krsna in the forests of Vraja! (Oh, giving up all speculative knowledge and
materialistic activities!)


 


2)
Just worship Gaura, Gadadhara, Advaita, and Lord Nityananda, the original
spiritual master! (Oh, knowing Lord Gaura and Lord Krsna to be the same!) (Oh,
knowing the spiritual master to be very dear to Krsna!) Just remember the dear
associates of Lord Caitanya, namely Srivasa Thakura, Haridasa Thakura, Murari
Gupta, and Mukunda Datta! (Oh, in deep love for Lord Gaura, you should
remember, just remember!) (Just remember the two great personalities Srivasa
Thakura and Haridasa Thakura!)


 


3)
Just remember Sri Rupa Goswami, Sanatana, Jiva, and the two Raghunathas! (Oh,
if you are engaged in worshiping Lord Krsna!) (Just remember the two great
souls Sri Rupa Goswami and Sanatana Goswami!) Just remember Raghava Pandita,
Gopal Bhatta Goswami, Svarupa Damodara Goswami, and Ramananda Raya! (Oh, if you
really seek love of Krsna!) (Just remember Svarupa Damodara Goswami and
Ramananda Raya!)


 


4)
Just remember Srila Kavi Karnapura and all his family members, especially his
father, Sivananda Sena! (Oh, always remember, always remember!) (Sri Kavi
Karnapura and his family!) Just remember all the sadhus who follow the path of
Sri Rupa Goswami and who are absorbed in the ecstasy of bhajan! (Oh, if you
actually want residence in the land of Vraja!) (Just remember the sadhus who
are followers of Srila Rupa Goswami!)


 


Remarks/ Extra Information
: 


No
Extra Information available for this song!


 


UPDATED:
 August 3, 2017