+++ 
title = "Fresco Hermoso Goura"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est.
2001                                                                                                                                    
            
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
F


Song
Name: Fresco Hermoso Goura


Official
Name: Sacisutastakam


Author:

Atulananda Acarya


Book
Name: None


Language:

Spanish


 
















 


LYRICS:


(1)


Fresco
hermoso Goura, flechas de flores carga


Nuevas
emociones, nueva danza baila


Fresca
sonrisa, de oro Su bella forma


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(2)


Como
oro nuevo, suave cual mantequilla


De ropas
nuevas, prueba el rasa con Krsna


Su
prema brilla en nueve amorosas formas


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(3)


Supremo
en Hari bhakti, cuida el Harinama


Cientos
de lÃ¡grimas Sus ojos derraman


Sus
manos por japa, el canto lo emociona


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(4)


El
dolor de los hombres por siempre acaba


De
toda meta la mÃ¡s elevada


Borra
el dolor del mundo, en abejorro transforma


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(5)


Su
bhakti enseÃ±a, a Sus amados atrae


A Krsna
lleva con Su hermoso baile


La
mente baila encantada en Su gloria


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(6)


Junto
con kartals melodioso canta


Lo
sigue la vina que dulce entona


AsÃ­
inspira un baile que en bhakti se encanta


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(7)


Da el
yuga dharma, es el hijo de Nanda


Medita
en Su forma, Su dham Lo acompaÃ±a


De
este mundo salva a quien Lo adora


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


(8)


Tiembla
Su voz que Sus nombres repite


Despierta
a la vida todo cuanto existe


Sus ojos,
Sus pies, Su ropa, cual auroras


Adoro
a Saci Suta, al hermoso Goura


 


TRANSLATION


1) His
complexion is the hue of fresh cream tinged with kunkum. He is the ever-fresh
Cupid who shoots arrows of newly blossoming flowers. He bears newer and newer
moods of emotional ecstasies. He is fond of performing novel dances. He makes
ever-new jokes that cause much laughter. His brilliant luster is like freshly
cast gold.Â—I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


2) He
is endowed with ever-fresh love of Godhead. His radiant luster is like the
color of fresh butter. His fresh attire is arranged in ever-new fashions. He
relishes ever-new mellows of love for Krsna. He shines in nine-fold new ways
while executing the nine-fold processes of devotion. He is permeated with a
most auspicious loving nature.Â—I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother
Saci.


 


3) He
is absorbed in devotion to Sri Hari. He maintains the chanting of the names of
Hari. While chanting He counts the holy names on the fingers of His hands. He
is addicted to the name of Hari. He always has tears of love welling in His
eyes.Â—I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


4) He
is always removing the suffering of material existence for mankind. He is the
goal of life for persons who are dedicated to their supreme interest. He
inspires men to become like honeybees (eager for the honey of Krsna-prema). He
removes the burning fever of the material world.Â—I bow down to Gaura, the
beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


5) He
motivates pure devotion unto Himself. He is most attractive to His beloved
servitors. By His dramatic dancing He exhibits the characteristics of the King
of paramours. He causes the minds of beautiful young village women to dance.Â—I
bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


6) He
plays karatals as His throat emits sweet melodious sounds and the vibrant notes
of the vina are softly played. He thus inspires the devotees to perform
dramatic dancing that is infused with aspects of His own devotional service.Â—I
bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


7) He
is accompanied by the sankirtana movement, which is the religious practice for
the age of Kali. He is the son of Nanda Maharaja come again. He is the
extraordinarily brilliant ornament of the earth. His preaching mood is suitably
adapted to the cycle of birth and death. His consciousness is fixed in
meditation on His own form of Krsna. He is always accompanied by His
transcendental abode.Â—I bow to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


8) His
eyes, the soles of His feet, and His clothing are reddish like the color that
heralds the rising sun. As He utters His own names, His voice falters. He
awakens a sweet flavor to life throughout the universe.Â—I bow down to Gaura,
the beautiful son of Mother Saci.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


This
is the Spanish translation of Â“
Nava Gaura Varam
.Â”


 


UPDATED:
 September 30, 2015