+++ 
title = "Kararavindena Padaravindam"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
K


Song
Name: 
Kararavindena Padaravindam


Official
Name: Bala-Mukundastakam


Author:

Bilvamangala Thakura


Book
Name: None


Language:

Sanskrit


 








अ








 


LYRICS:


(1)


karāravindena
padāravindaḿ


mukhāravinde
viniveśayantam


vaṭasya
patrasya puṭeśayānaḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(2)


samhrutya
lokān vaṭapatramadhye


śayanamādyanta
vihīnarūpam


sarveśvaraḿ
sarvahitāvatāraḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(3)


indīvaraśyāmala
komalāńgam


indrādidevārcita
pādapadmam


santānakalpadrumamāśritānāḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(4)


lambālakaḿ
lambitahārayaṣṭiḿ


śṛuńgāralīlāńkita
danta pańktim


bimbādharaḿ
cāruviśālanetraḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(5)


śikye
nidhāyāpi payodadhīni


bahirgatāya
vrajanāyikāyām


bhuktvāyatheṣṭaḿ
kapaṭenasuptaḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(6)


kālijalasthita
kāliyasya


phaṇāgrarańgenaṭanapriyantam


tatprucchahastaḿ
śaradinduvaktraḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


(7)


ulūkhalebaddhamudāraśauryam


uttuńgayugmārjuna
bhańgalīlām


utphullapadmāyata
cārunetraḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmiÂ  


 


(8)


ālokya
mātumukha mādareṇa


stanyaḿ
pibantaḿ sarasīruhākṣam


saccinmayaḿ
devamanantarūpaḿ


bālaḿ
mukundaḿ manasā smarāmi


 


TRANSLATION


1)
I meditate on that infant Mukunda (Krsna) who is sleeping on the leaf of a
banyan tree with his the lotus like foot placed in his lotus like mouth with
his lotus like hand.


 


2)
I meditate on that infant Mukunda who is sleeping holding all the worlds
together on the leaf of a banyan tree in such form, which has no beginning or
no end.Â  He is the incarnation of God for the welfare of all mankind and the
Lord of all.


 


3)
I meditate on Bala Mukunda in my heart, who has a delicate body like a blue
lotus and whose foot is worshipped by all the gods and Indra etc. He is the
wish-fulfilling tree for those who take refuge in him.


 


4)
I meditate on that Bala Mukunda in my heart, who has hanging curls and hanging
necklaces, a beautiful row of teeth which are shown playfully. His lower lip is
as red as a Bimba fruit and has beautiful wide eyes. 


 


5)
I meditate on that Bala Mukunda in my heart, who pretended as if he was
sleeping, having eaten the yogurt to his contentment from the hanging pots of
the Gopis when they had gone out.


 


6)
I meditate on Bala Mukunda whose beautiful face resembles the autumnal moon and
is dancing happily on the hood of the serpent Kaliya holding its tail with his
hand in the Kalinda pond.


 


7)
I meditate on Bala Mukunda with beautiful eyes like the petals of a full-
bloomed lotus and who with great valor broke the pair of tall yamala-arjuna
trees even though he was tied to a mortar (a large heavy stone bowl for
poundingÂ  grain).


 


8)
I meditate on Bala Mukunda, God filled with sat and cit, i.e., infinite
consciousness, of infinite divine form, the lotus eyed one who cast his looks
at his motherÂ’s face with affection, while drinking milk from her breast.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


In
many Vaisnava organizations, the first verse of this song is accompanied by
selected verses of the song, 
Agre
Kurunam Atha
.



 


UPDATED:
 September 2, 2016