+++ 
title = "Krsna Kirtana Cantan Bailan"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est.
2001                                                                                                                                    
            
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song
Lyrics


⇒
 
K


Song
Name: Krsna Kirtana Cantan Bailan


Official
Name: Sad-Gosvamyastakam


Author:

Atulananda Acarya


Book
Name: None


Language:

Spanish


 




























 


 


LYRICS:


(1)


Krsna
kirtana cantan bailan con devociÃ³n, en el nÃ©ctar de amor por Dios


Queridos
por buenos y malos por no envidiar, son dignos de adoraciÃ³n


Ellos
portan la gracia de Caitanyadev, y alivian de toda ilusiÃ³n


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(2)


En los
sastras versados y en establecer, la eterna y real religiÃ³n


Por
desear a todos el bien refugio son, de toda la creaciÃ³n


A los
pies de Radha Krsna es su bhajan, con plena felicidad


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(3)


Las glorias
de Sri Gauranga describÃ­an, con plena fe y realizaciÃ³n


Y con
bellas canciones hechas a Govinda, limpian a todo ofensor


El mar
de ananda muy hÃ¡biles en aumentar, desdeÃ±aron el brahman


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(4)


Rechazaron
riquezas y alta posiciÃ³n, viÃ©ndolas sin ningÃºn valor


Y
vistieron sÃ³lo un kaupin para ayudar, a los pobres por compasiÃ³n


Y por
las olas se dejaron siempre llevar, del mÃ¡s hondo gopi-bhav


Yo adoro
a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(5)


Donde
se escucha al cucu y al cisne cantar, la garza y el pavo real


Y
varias joyas bajo cada Ã¡rbol hay, en el bello Vrndavan


DÃ­a y
noche adoraron a Radha Krsna, mostrando al jiva su finalidad


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(6)


Cada
dÃ­a cumplieron con sus firmes votos, de cantar y reverenciar


El
comer y el dormir conquistaron asÃ­, enseÃ±ando su gran humildad


Radha
Krsna no dejaban de recordar, sumidos en felicidad


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(7)


A
orillas del Radhakunda y del Kalindi, y en el mismo Vamsivat


Sus
cuerpos mostraron los sÃ­ntomas de amor, en locura trascendental


Cantando
las cualidades de Hari, en beatitud espiritual


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


(8)


Â¡Oh
Radha! Â¡reina de Vraja! Â¡Oh Lalita! Â¡Oh hijo de Nanda! Â¿dÃ³nde estÃ¡n?


En los
bosques del Yamuna o en Govardhana, que alguien nos diga dÃ³nde estÃ¡n


AsÃ­
llamÃ¡ndolos por todo Vrndavan, expresaron gran separaciÃ³n


Yo
adoro a Rupa Sanatan a ambos Raghus, a Sri Jiva y Gopala Bhatta


 


TRANSLATION


1)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa Gosvami,
Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha dasa
Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who are always
engaged in chanting the holy name of Krsna and dancing. They are just like the
ocean of love of God, and they are popular both with the gentle and with the
ruffians, because they are not envious of anyone. Whatever they do, they are
all-pleasing to everyone, and they are fully blessed by Lord Caitanya. Thus
they are engaged in missionary activities meant to deliver all the conditioned
souls in the material universe.


 


2)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who are very
expert in scrutinizingly studying all the revealed scriptures with the aim of
establishing eternal religious principles for the benefit of all human beings.
Thus they are honored all over the three worlds and they are worth taking
shelter of because they are absorbed in the mood of the gopis and are engaged
in the transcendental loving service of Radha and Krsna.


 


3)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who are very
much enriched in understanding of Lord Caitanya and who are thus expert in
narrating His transcendental qualities. They can purify all conditioned souls
from the reactions of their sinful activities by pouring upon them
transcendental songs about Govinda. As such, they are very expert in increasing
the limits of the ocean of transcendental bliss, and they are the saviors of
the living entities from the devouring mouth of liberation.


 


4)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who kicked off
all association of aristocracy as insignificant. In order to deliver the poor
conditioned souls, they accepted loincloths, treating themselves as mendicants,
but they are always merged in the ecstatic ocean of the gopis' love for Krsna
and bathe always and repeatedly in the waves of that ocean.


 


5)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who were always
engaged in worshiping Radha-Krsna in the transcendental land of Vrndavana where
there are beautiful trees full of fruits and flowers which have under their
roots all valuable jewels. The Gosvamis are perfectly competent to bestow upon
the living entities the greatest boon of the goal of life.


 


6)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who were engaged
in chanting the holy names of the Lord and bowing down in a scheduled
measurement. In this way they utilized their valuable lives and in executing
these devotional activities they conquered over eating and sleeping and were
always meek and humble enchanted by remembering the transcendental qualities of
the Lord.


 


7)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa Gosvami,
Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha dasa
Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who were sometimes on
the bank of the Radha-kunda lake or the shores of the Yamuna and sometimes at
Vamsivata. There they appeared just like madmen in the full ecstasy of love for
Krsna, exhibiting different transcendental symptoms in their bodies, and they
were merged in the ecstasy of Krsna consciousness.


 


8)
I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvamis, namely Sri Rupa
Gosvami, Sri Sanatana Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha Bhatta Gosvami, Sri Raghunatha
dasa Gosvami, Sri Jiva Gosvami, and Sri Gopala Bhatta Gosvami, who were
chanting very loudly everywhere in Vrndavana, shouting, "Queen of
Vrndavana, Radharani! O Lalita! O son of Nanda Maharaja! Where are you all now?
Are you just on the hill of Govardhana, or are you under the trees on the bank
of the Yamuna? Where are you?" These were their moods in executing Krsna
consciousness.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


This
is the Spanish translation of Â“
Krsnotkirtana Gana Nartana
(Sri Sadgosvamyastakam)
.Â”


 


UPDATED:
 November 1, 2015