+++ 
title = "La Noche Termina"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
L


Song
Name: La Noche Termina


Official
Name: None


Author:

Atulananda Acarya


Book
Name: None


Language:

Spanish


 






















 


LYRICS:


(1)


La
noche termina, el dÃ­a ya empieza


Tu
sueÃ±o deja, levÃ¡ntate oh Jiva


Canta
Hari Hari, Mukunda Murari


Rama
Krsna Hayagriva


 


(2)


Nrsimha
Vamana, Sri Madhusudana


Hijo
del rey Nanda, Syama


Matas
a Putana y a Kaitabha


Gloria
a Ram hijo de Dasarath


 


(3)


Amado
de Yasoda, Govinda Gopala


Pastor
de Vrndavana


Amado
de las gopis y de Sri Radhika


La mÃ¡s
bella Personalidad


 


(4)


A
Ravana eliminas, robas la mantequilla


Como a
las gopis sus ropas tambiÃ©n


Protector
de Vraja, a los gopas amparas


Tu
flauta roba la mente a su vez


 


(5)


Rey de
los yoguis, hijo de Nanda


A todo
Vraja quitas el temor


Como
nube nueva, oh belleza extrema


El
flautista mÃ¡s encantador


 


(6)


Hijo
de Yasoda, termina con Kamsa


En
Vrindavan goza del rasa


Bajo
Kadambas juega,


Ante
el amor se entrega


Los
bosquecillos son Su casa


 


(7)


Ananda
aumenta, es morada del prema


Flechas
de flores usa es Kamadeva


A las
gopis contenta, alegra la conciencia


Todas
las cualidades alberga


 


(8)


Vida
del Yamuna, en sus lilas se encanta


De las
gopis cakoras la luna


Estos
nombres canta, de Krsna sus glorias


Oh
mente guÃ¡rdalo en tu memoria


 


TRANSLATION


1)
The night has come to an end and the light of dawn is entering. O jiva soul,
arise and give up your sleep. Chant the holy names of Lord Hari, who is the
giver of liberation; the enemy of the Mura demon; the supreme enjoyer; the
all-attractive one; and the horse-headed incarnation, Hayagriva.


 


2)
Lord Hari [Krsna] incarnated as the half-man, half-lion, Nrsimha. He appeared
as a dwarf-brahmana named Upendra and is the killer of the Madhu demon. He is
the beloved son of the King of Vraja, Nanda Maharaja, and is blackish in
complexion. He is the slayer of the Putana witch and the destroyer of the demon
Kaitabha. All glories to Lord Hari, who appeared as Lord Rama, the son of King
Dasaratha.


 


3)
He is the darling of mother Yasoda; the giver of pleasure to the cows, land,
and spiritual senses; and the protector of the cows. He is the Lord of the
Vrndavana forest; the gopis' beloved; the lover of Radhika; and the most
beautiful personality in all the worlds.


 


4)
As Ramacandra He brought about the end of the demoniac King Ravana; as Krsna He
stole the older gopis' butter; He stole the younger gopis' clothes while they
were bathing in the Yamuna. He is a cowherd boy of Vraja and the protector of
the cowherd boys. He steals the hearts of all and always holds a flute.


 


5)
Lord Krsna is worshiped by the best of yogis and is the son of Nanda. He
removes all the fears of the inhabitants of Vraja. He is the color of a fresh
rain cloud, and His form is enchanting. When He wanders about, playing His
flute, He looks very charming.


 


6)
He is the son of Yasoda and the killer of King Kamsa, and He sports in the rasa
dance among the groves of Vraja. Krsna engages in this rasa dance underneath
the kadamba trees, and He resides in the forest of Vrndavana.


 


7)
He increases the ecstasy of His devotees. He is the reservoir of all love and
is the transcendental Cupid who uses His flowered arrows to increase the loving
desires of the gopis. He is the pleasure of the gopis' hearts and the abode of
all wonderful qualities.


 


8)
Lord Krsna is the life of the River Yamuna. He is always absorbed in amorous
pastimes, and He is the moon of the gopis' minds, which are like the cakora
birds that subsist only upon moonlight. O mind, obey these words of mine and
sing the glories of Sri Krsna in the form of these holy names, which are full
of nectarean mellows.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


This
song is a Spanish translation of the song Â“
Vibhavari Sesa Aloka Pravesa
Â”
by Bhaktivinoda Thakura.


 


UPDATED:
 November 1, 2015