+++ 
title = "Saludo Al SeÃ±or De Eterna Forma De Gozo"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
S


Song
Name: Saludo Al SeÃ±or De Eterna Forma De Gozo


Official
Name: Damodarastakam


Author:

Atulananda Acarya


Book
Name: None


Language:

Spanish


 
















 


LYRICS:


(1)


Saludo
al SeÃ±or de eterna forma de gozo


De
aros brillantes que nace en Gokula


Huye
de Yasoda como temeroso


Pero
ella es mÃ¡s veloz y lo captura


 


(2)


Un muy
fuerte llanto derraman Sus ojos


A los
que refriegan Sus manos de loto


Su
cuello de tres lÃ­neas tiembla agitado


Y el
collar de quien por bhakti es atado


 


(3)


Estos
pasatiempos son lagos de gozo


En los
que sumerge a Sus devotos


Que el
bhakti puro lo conquista demuestra


Con
amor le ofrezco cientos de reverencias


 


(4)


Â¡Oh
SeÃ±or de gracia! de TÃ­ no pido


Ni liberaciÃ³n
ni Vaikuntha mismo


Esta
forma tuya de niÃ±o Gopala


Muestra
siempre en mÃ­, fuera de eso nada


 


(5)


Tu
rostro de loto con risos negros


Los
besos de Yasoda lo tiÃ±eron


Con
sus labios rojos cual fruta bimba


SÃ³lo
eso muestra nada mÃ¡s me admira


 


(6)


Reverencias
Damodara, Ananta, Visnu


Ten
piedad estoy en aflicciÃ³n sumido


Mira
con Tu gracia a este pobre caÃ­do


MuÃ©strate
a este tonto, sÃ© compasivo


 


(7)


Como
salvaste a los hijos de Kuvera


DÃ¡ndoles
cabida a Tu devociÃ³n sincera


AsÃ­ el
prema-bhakti a mÃ­ tambiÃ©n regala


No me
des mukti Â¡Oh Damodara!


 


(8)


A esa
refulgente amarra reverencio


Y a Tu
abdomen que guarda al universo


Reverencia
a Radha por Ti tan querida


Y a Tu
ilimitado y divino lila


 


TRANSLATION


1)
To the Supreme Lord, whose form is the embodiment of eternal existence,
knowledge, and bliss, whose shark-shaped earrings are swinging to and fro, who
is beautifully shining in the divine realm of Gokula, who I (due to the offense
of breaking the pot of yogurt that His mother was churning into butter and then
stealing the butter that was kept hanging from a swing) is quickly running from
the wooden grinding mortar in fear of mother Yasoda, but who has been caught
from behind by her who ran after Him with greater speed--to that Supreme Lord,
Sri Damodara, I offer my humble obeisances. 


 


2)
(Seeing the whipping stick in His mother's hand) He is crying and rubbing His
eyes again and again with His two lotus hands. His eyes are filled with fear,
and the necklace of pearls around His neck, which is marked with three lines
like a conch shell, is shaking because of His quick breathing due to crying. To
this Supreme Lord, Sri Damodara, whose belly is bound not with ropes but with
His mother's pure love, I offer my humble obeisances. 


 


3)
By such childhood pastimes as this He is drowning the inhabitants of Gokula in
pools of ecstasy, and is revealing to those devotees who are absorbed in
knowledge of His supreme majesty and opulence that He is only conquered by
devotees whose pure love is imbues with intimacy and is free from all
conceptions of awe and reverence. With great love I again offer my obeisances
to Lord Damodara hundreds and hundreds of times. 


 


4)
O Lord, although You are able to give all kinds of benedictions, I do not pray
to You for the boon of impersonal liberation, nor the highest liberation of
eternal life in Vaikuntha, nor any other boon (which may be obtained by
executing the nine processes of bhakti). O Lord, I simply wish that this form
of Yours as Bala Gopala in Vrndavana may ever be manifest in my heart, for what
is the use to me of any other boon besides this? 


 


5)
O Lord, Your lotus face, which is encircled by locks of soft black hair tinged
with red, is kissed again and again by mother Yasoda, and Your lips are reddish
like the bimba fruit. May this beautiful vision of Your lotus face be ever
manifest in my heart. Thousands and thousands of other benedictions are of no
use to me. 


 


6)
O Supreme Godhead, I offer my obeisances unto You. O Damodara! O Ananta! O
Vishnu! O master! O my Lord, be pleased upon me. By showering Your glance of
mercy upon me, deliver this poor ignorant fool who is immersed in an ocean of
worldly sorrows, and become visible to my eyes. 


 


7)
O Lord Damodara, just as the two sons of Kuvera--Manigriva and Nalakuvara--were
delivered from the curse of Narada and made into great devotees by You in Your
form as a baby tied with rope to a wooden grinding mortar, in the same way,
please give to me Your own prema-bhakti. I only long for this and have no
desire for any kind of liberation. 


 


8)
O Lord Damodara, I first of all offer my obeisances to the brilliantly
effulgent rope which binds Your belly. I then offer my obeisances to Your
belly, which is the abode of the entire universe. I humbly bow down to Your
most beloved Srimati Radharani, and I offer all obeisances to You, the Supreme
Lord, who displays unlimited pastimes. 


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


This
is the Spanish translation of the song Â“
Namamisvaram Saccidananda
Rupam
.Â”


 


UPDATED:
 January 5, 2017