+++ 
title = "Upasita Padambujas"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song Lyrics
 
⇒
 
U


Song
Name: Upasita Padambujas


Official
Name: Volume 1 Tritiya Caitanyastaka


Author:

Rupa Goswami


Book
Name: 
Stavamala


Language:

Sanskrit


 








अ








 


LYRICS:


(1)


upāsita-padāmbujas
tvam anurakta-rudrādibhiḥ


prapadya
puruṣottamaḿ padam adabhram udbhrājitaḥ


samasta-nata-maṇḍalī-sphurad-abhīṣṭa-kalpa-drumaḿ



śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(2)


na varṇayitum
iśate gurutarāsvatārāyitā


bhavantam
uru-buddhayo na khalu sārvabhaumādayaḥ


paro
bhavatu tatra kaḥ paṭu-rato namas te paraḿ


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(3)


na yat
katham api śrutāv upaniṣadbhir apy āhitaḿ


svayaḿ
ca vivṛtaḿ na yad gurutarāvatārāntare


kṣipann
asi rasāmbudhe tad iha bhakti-ratnaḿ kṣitau


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(4)


nija-praṇaya-visphuran-naṭana-rańga-vismāpita-


tri-netra-nata-maṇḍala-prakṭitānurāgāmṛta


ahańkṛti-kalańkitoddhata-janādi-durbodha
he


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(5)


bhavanti
bhuvi ye narāḥ kalita-duṣkulotpattayas


tvam
uddharasi tān api pracura-cāru-kāruṇyataḥ


iti
pramuditāntaraḥ śaraṇam āśritas tvām
ahaḿ


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(6)


mukhāmbuja-pariskalan-mṛdula-vāń-madhūlī-rasa-


prasańga-janitākhila-praṇata-bhṛńga-rańgotkara


samasta-jana-mańgala-prabhava-nāma-ratnāmbudhe


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(7)


mṛgāńka-madhurānana
sphurad-anidra-padmekṣaṇa


smita-stabaka-sundarādhara
viśańkaṭoras-taṭa


bhujoddhata-bhujańgama-prabha
manoja-koṭi-dyute


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(8)


ahaḿ
kanaka-ketukī-kusuma-gaura duṣṭaḥ kṣitau


na
doṣa-lava-darśitā vividha-doṣa-pūrṇe 'pi te


ataḥ
pravaṇayā dhiyā kṛpaṇa-vatsala tvāḿ
bhaje


śacī-suta
mayi prabho kuru mukunda mande kṛpām


 


(9)


idaḿ
dharaṇi-maṇḍalotsava bhavat-padāńkeṣu ye


niviṣṭa-manaso
narāḥ paripaṭhanti padyāṣṭakam


śacī-hṛdaya-nandana
prakaṭa-kīrti-candra prabho


nija-praṇaya-nirbharaḿ
vitara deva tebhyaḥ śubham


 


TRANSLATION


1)
O Lord Caitanya, Your lotus feet are worshiped by the devoted Siva and other
demigods. You are splendidly manifested in the best of cities, Jagannatha Puri.
For the surrendered devotees You are a desire tree. O Sacinandana, O Mukunda,
please be merciful to this great fool.


 


2)
Neither the great incarnations [headed by Dattatreya and Vyasadeva] nor the
great intellectuals, headed by Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya, can properly describe
You. Who is more intelligent than You? I offer my respectful obeisances unto
You. O Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please be merciful to this great fool.


 


3)
The Upanisads did not reveal the jewel of pure devotional service, nor did the
great incarnations describe it, yet You have now cast this priceless jewel into
this world from the nectar ocean. O Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please be merciful
to this great fool.


 


4)
O Lord whose dancing in ecstatic love filled Siva with wonder, O Lord who
revealed to the surrendered devotees the nectar of pure devotion, O Lord who
cannot be understood by the proud egoists, O Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please be
merciful to this great fool.


 


5)
Out of Your great and splendid mercy You deliver even the low-born and sinful.
This has made me very happy at heart, and thus I take shelter of You. O
Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please be merciful to this great fool.


 


6)
You delight the bumblebees of Your surrendered devotees with the honey of the
words trickling from Your lotus mouth. You are an ocean of the jewels of the
holy names, which are auspicious for all people. O Sacinandana, O Mukunda,
please be merciful to this great fool.


 


7)
O moon-faced Lord, O Lord with glistening, wide-awake lotus-eyes, O Lord whose
smile is a cluster of flowers, O Lord whose lips are handsome, O Lord whose
chest is broad, O Lord whose arms are like two glorious snakes, O Lord as
splendid as millions of Cupids, O Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please be merciful to
this great fool.


 


8)
O Lord as splendid as a golden ketaki flower, I am the most wicked person in
the world. Still, even if a person is filled with a great host of faults, You
do not see the slightest fault in him. For this reason, O Lord who is kind to
the fallen, I worship You with a humble heart. O Sacinandana, O Mukunda, please
be merciful to this great fool.


 


9)
O festival of happiness for this world, O pleasure of the heart of Saci, O
splendid moon of glory, O Supreme Personality of Godhead, please grant
auspicious love for You to those persons who, their hearts rapt in meditation
on Your footprints, read these eight verses.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


No
Extra Information available for this song!


 


UPDATED:
 November 8, 2015