+++ 
title = "Ye Suddha Bhakta Ye Krsna Tomate Satata"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home
 
⇒
 
Song
Lyrics


⇒
 
Y


Song
Name: Ye Suddha Bhakta Ye Krsna Tomate Satata


Official
Name: Chapter 12


Author:

A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami
Prabhupada


Book
Name: 
Gitar
Gan


Language:

Bengali


 
















 


LYRICS:


(1)


(arjuna
kohilen)


ye
suddha bhakta ye krsna tomate satata


ananya
bhaktira dvara haye thake yukta


ar ye
avyaktavadi avyakta aksare


niskama
karam kari sada cinta kare


tar
madhye keva uttam yogavit haya


janibar
iccha mor karaha niscay


 


(2)


(sri
bhagavan kohilen)


amara
svarupa ei yara mana sada


avista
haiya thake upasana hrda


sraddhar
sahit kare prana bhaktimay


uttama
yogira srestha kahinu niscay


 


(3-4)


aksara
avyakta-sakta nirdista-bhav


indriya
samyam kari hitaisi svabhav


sarva-vyapi
acintya ye kutastha acal


dhruva
nirvises sattve thakiya atal


samabuddhi
haye sab kare upasana


se
amake prapta hay kariya sadhana


 


(5)


kintu
ei-matra bhed jana ubhayera madhye


bhakta
pay ati sighra ar kaste siddhe


avyakta
asakta sei vahu kles tar


avyakta
ye gati duhkha dehira apar


 


(6-7)


ye
amar sambandhete sab karma kare


amara
svarupa ei nitya dhyana kare


jivana
ye more snapi amate asakta


ananya
ye bhav bhakti tahe anurakta


se
bhaktake mrtyu-rup e samsara hate


uddhar
kariba sighra jana bhala mate


 


(8)


ataev
tumi ei dvibhuja svarupe


eman
buddhi sthira kara bhagavat svarupe


amara
e nityarupe nitya-yukta hale


avasya
paibe prem sarva-srestha phale


urdhva-gati
sei jana na kara samsay


sarvocca
phal taha kahinu niscay


 


(9)


yadi
se sahaj bhave hao asamartha


abhyasa
yogete kara labh paramartha


vidhi-marge
rag-marge yeva more cay


acirat
se abhyase loka more pay


 


(10)


abhyaseo
asamartha yadi tumi hao


amara
lagiya karme sadayukta rao


amara
santosa janya yeva karya hay


janio
sesab more praptira upay


 


(11)


tahateo
yadi taba saktira abhav


bhakti-yog
asrayete viruddha svabhav


tabe
se vaidika karma tyaji karmaphal


avasya
sadhive tumi yatnete prabal


 


(12)


bhakti-yoge
asamartha yeva abhyas-ibhala


tahate
ye asamartha jnanete suphala


tahateo
asamartha atma-cinta sreya


tahateo
asamartha karma-yoga sreya


kamya
karme sukh nai tyag-iuttam


tyag-isantira
mul tate nahi bhram


 


(13-14)


amara
ye bhakta sarva-gunera adhar


sakalera
mitra hay himsa nahi tar


bhakta
nahe himsar patra bhakta se karun


jivera
durdasa heri sada duhkhi man


dehe
atma-buddhi bhram bhaktera se nai


nirmamonirahankara
duhkhera balai


sarvata
santusta yogi se drdha niscay


yatnasil
nija karye amate vilay


tar
karya man pran amate niyukta


amara
se priya bhakta sarbadai mukta


 


(15)


tar
dvara kona lok duhkha nahi pay


kahakeo
mane prane duhkha nahi dyay


harsamarsa-bhayodveg
e-sabe se mukta


ataev
mora bhakta ati priya-yukta


 


(16)


lok
vyavahare bhakta sada nirapeksa


udasin
gata-vyatha suci ar daksa


suci
hay mor bhakta brahma se svabhave


jati
buddhi nahi kara bhakta se vaisnave


 


(17)


jada
karye harsa duhkha ye janera nai


tyajiyache
ye akankha cinta yar nai


subha-subha
parityagi yeva bhaktiman


amara
se priya bhakta tahake samman


 


(18-20)


satru
mitra apaman kimba nija man


jadamukta
mor bhakta manaye saman


sit,
grisma, sukh, duhkha ek yeva mane


sangamukta
sei bhakta sthita atma-jnane


tulya
ninda stuti ar santusta gambhir


niketana
tar nai mati tar sthir


sei
mor priya bhakta sei bhaktiman


bhaktera
laksana yata karinu vyakhyan


 


(20)


ei
suddha bhakti yeva karibe sadhana


amrta
se dharma jana jada vilaksana


tahate
ye sraddha-yukta anukula pran


atyanta
se priya bhakta amara saman


 


(21)

bhaktivedanta kahe sri-gitara gan


sune
yadi suddha bhakta krsnagata-pran


 


TRANSLATION


1)
Arjuna inquired: Which is considered to be more perfect, those who are properly
engaged in Your devotional service, or those who worship the impersonal
Brahman, the unmanifested? 


 


2)
The Blessed Lord said: He whose mind is fixed on My personal form, always
engaged in worshiping Me with great and transcendental faith, is considered by
Me to be most perfect. 


 


3-4)
But those who fully worship the unmanifested, that which lies beyond the
perception of the senses, the all-pervading, inconceivable, fixed and
immovable--the impersonal conception of the Absolute Truth--by controlling the
various senses and being equally disposed to everyone, such persons, engaged in
the welfare of all, at last achieve Me. 


 


5)
For those whose minds are attached to the unmanifested, impersonal feature of
the Supreme, advancement is very troublesome. To make progress in that
discipline is always difficult for those who are embodied. 


 


6-7)
For one who worships Me, giving up all his activities unto Me and being devoted
to Me without deviation, engaged in devotional service and always meditating
upon Me, who has fixed his mind upon Me, O son of Prtha, for him I am the swift
deliverer from the ocean of birth and death. 


 


8)
Just fix your mind upon Me, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, and engage all
your intelligence in Me. Thus you will live in Me always, without a doubt. 


 


9)
My dear Arjuna, O winner of wealth, if you cannot fix your mind upon Me without
deviation, then follow the regulated principles of bhakti-yoga. In this way you
will develop a desire to attain to Me. 


 


10)
If you cannot practice the regulations of bhakti-yoga, then just try to work
for Me, because by working for Me you will come to the perfect stage. 


 


11)
If, however, you are unable to work in this consciousness, then try to act
giving up all results of your work and try to be self-situated. 


 


12)
If you cannot take to this practice, then engage yourself in the cultivation of
knowledge. Better than knowledge, however, is meditation, and better than
meditation is renunciation of the fruits of action, for by such renunciation
one can attain peace of mind. 


 


13-14)
One who is not envious but who is a kind friend to all living entities, who
does not think himself a proprietor, who is free from false ego and equal both
in happiness and distress, who is always satisfied and engaged in devotional
service with determination and whose mind and intelligence are in agreement
with Me--he is very dear to Me. 


 


15)
He for whom no one is put into difficulty and who is not disturbed by anxiety,
who is steady in happiness and distress, is very dear to Me. 


 


16)
A devotee who is not dependent on the ordinary course of activities, who is
pure, expert, without cares, free from all pains, and who does not strive for
some result, is very dear to Me. 


 


17)
One who neither grasps pleasure or grief, who neither laments nor desires, and
who renounces both auspicious and inauspicious things, is very dear to Me. 


 


18-19)
One who is equal to friends and enemies, who is equipoised in honor and
dishonor, heat and cold, happiness and distress, fame and infamy, who is always
free from contamination, always silent and satisfied with anything, who doesn't
care for any residence, who is fixed in knowledge and engaged in devotional
service, is very dear to Me. 


 


20) He
who follows this imperishable path of devotional service and who completely
engages himself with faith, making Me the supreme goal, is very, very dear to
Me.


 


21)
Thus Bhaktivedanta sings the song of Sri Gita, with the hope that hearing this,
Krsna conscious pure devotees will be pleased.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA
INFORMATION:


This
is the Bengali translation of Bhagavad-Gita Chapter 12 Â“
Evam Satata Yukta Ye
Bhaktas
.Â”


 


UPDATED:
 October 27, 2015