+++ 
title = "Sri-Sriman-Nityananda-dvadasakam"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  
www.kksongs.org








Home


Ã 
 
Song Lyrics
 
Ã 
 
Y


Song Name: Yo Â‘Nanto Â‘Nanta Vaktrair


Official Name: Sri Sriman Nityananda Dvadasakam


Author: 
Sridhara Goswami


Book Name: None


Language: 
Sanskrit


 


LYRICS:


(1)


yo
'nanto 'nanta-vaktrair niravadhi hari-samkirtanam samvidhatte


yo
va dhatte dharitrim sirasi niravadhi ksudra-dhuli kaneva 


yah
sesas-chatra-sayasana-vasana-vidhaih sevate te yad-arthah


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna-pradam tam


 


(2)

amsair yah ksirasayi sakala bhuvanapah sarva jivantarastho


yo
va garbhodasayi dasa-sata-vadano veda-suktair vigitah


bramandasesa
garbha prakrti-pati-patir jiva-sanghasrayangah


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradarh tam



(3)


yasyamso
vyuha-madhye vilasati parama vyomni samkarsanakhya


atanvan
suddha-sattvam nikhila hari-sukham cetanam lilaya ca


jivahankara
bhavaspada iti kathitah kutracij-jivavad yah


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna-pradam tam



(4)


yascadi
vyuha-madhye prabhavati sagano mula-sankarsanakhyo


dvaravatyam
tad-urdhe madhupuri vasati prabhavakhyo vilasah 


sarvamsirama-nama
vrajapuri ramate sanujo yah svarupe


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam


 


(5)


sri-krsna
prema namaparama sukha-mayah ko'pyacintyah padartho


yad
gandhat sajjanaugha nigama bahumatam moksam apyaksipanti 


kaivalyaisvarya
seva pradagana iti yasyangatah premadatuh


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam


 


(6)


yo
balye lilayaikah parama-mudhuraya caikacakra-nagaryam


mata
pitror jananamatha nija-suhrdam hladayams citta-cakram


tirthan
babhrama sarvan upahrta janako nyasina prarthitas ca


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam



(7)


bhramam
bhraman ca tirthan yati-mukuta-mani madhavendra prasangat


labdhollasah
pratiksya prakatita caritam gaura dhamajagama


sri-gaurah
srinivasadibhir api yamavapalaye nandanasya


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam


 


(8)


praptajno
gaura-candrad akhila jana ganoddhara nama pradane


yah
prapya dvau surapau kali kalusa-hatau bhratarau brahma-daityau


gadha-prema
prakasaih krta-nidhira-vapus capi tav-ujjahara


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam



(9)


saksad
gauro gananam sirasi yad avadhutasya kaupiha-khandam


samdhartun
cadidesasava yavana vadhu sprsta-drsto 'pi vandyah 


brahmadyanam
apiti prabhu-panhrtakanam api svesta-pithah 


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam



(10)


uddhartumjnana-karmady-apahata-cantan
gaura-candro yadasau


nyasam
krtva tu maya mrgam anusrtavan grahayan krsna-nama


tac-chayevanvadhavat
sthala-jala-gahane yo 'pi tasyesta-cestah


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam



(11)


sri-radha
prema-lubdho divasa-nisitadasvada-mattaika lilo 


gauro
yan-cadidesa svaparikaravrtam krsna nama-pradatum


gaude
'vadham dadau yah subhaga-gana-dhanam gaura-nama-prakamam 


sri-nityananda-candram
bhaja bhaja satatam gaura-krsna pradam tam


 


(12)


sri-radha
krsna-lila rasa-madhura-sudhasvada-suddhaika-murtau


gaure
sraddham drdham bho prabhu-parikara-samrat prayacchadhame 'smin 


ullanghyanghrim
hi yasyakhila-bhajana-katha svapnavac caiva mithya


sri-nityananda-candram
patita saranadam gauradam tam bhaje 'ham


 


TRANSLATION

1) Lord Nityananda's representation as Ananta Sesa possesses unlimited mouths
which propagate and glorify Lord Hari's holy names and attributes. Ananta Sesa
constantly holds the weight of the Earth planet upon His innumerable hoods as
if it were an insignificant 

particle of dust. Ananta Sesa serves the Lord in various capacities,
manifesting as the Lord's personal umbrella, resting place, and 

clothing. Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri
Â  
Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the
association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.


 


2)
Lord Nityananda's partial manifestation as Ksirodakasayi Visnu functions as the
preservation principle of the entire universal 

creation, and is localized within every soul (Paramatma). Another eminent
expansion of Lord Nityananda is Garbhodakasayi Visnu, that all-imposing figure
whose thousands of heads are eulogized in the Vedic orations. Lord Nityananda's
presence is further extended in His expansion as Karanodasayi Visnu, the
supplying principle encompassing unlimited universes. Lord Nityananda is the
master of the Lord of 

material nature, Karanodasayi Visnu, who is the shelter of all living entities.
Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri 

Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is
none other than Lord Krsna.



3) Lord Nityananda's presence is further extended within the spiritual abode of
Vaikuntha in His partial manifestation known as Sankarsana. In Vaikuntha, Lord
Sankarsana performs spiritual pastimes which are fully transcendental, situated
in pure goodness, and all-pleasing to Lord Hari. As mentioned in the revealed
scriptures, Lord Nityananda is the individual temperament of ego existing
within the living entity, and He sometimes appears just like an ordinary living
entity. Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri Nityanandacandra,
who freely grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than
Lord Krsna.



4) Lord Nityananda, who is the fountainhead of the primary Sankarsana, exists
in full splendor separate from the original quadruple 

expansion and is known as mula Sankarsana. That all-attractive personality, Sri
Sankarsana, performs His wonderful pastimes in the 

spiritual realm in the regions known as Mathura and Dvaraka. The transcendental
city of Dvaraka is situated just below the city of Mathura. It is in these
spiritual places that Lord Sankarsana and His associates Aniruddha and
Pradyumna exhibit Their particular pastimes scripturally known as
prabhava-vilasah. Nityananda Prabhu in the form of Lord Balarama is the
ultimate source of all incarnations, and sportively plays in the charming
village of Vrajapura with His younger brother Lord Krsna. Let us eternally
worship that great personality Sri Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the
association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.


 


5)
Pure unalloyed love for Lord Krsna, which is inconceivable to all, embodies the
most supreme and intense happiness. When the devotees of the Lord realize the
joy of such love, they cast away the innumerable doctrines offered by the
Vedas, including the soul's emancipation. Lord Nityananda openly bestows pure
love, automatically including worship of the non-differentiated Brahman and
service offered in Vaikuntha, which is dominated by opulence and grandeur. Let us
eternally worship that great personality Sri Nityanandacandra, who freely
grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.



6) When Nityananda Prabhu was a small boy, He performed sweet and charming
pastimes in the village of Ekacakra. His pastimes invoked 

the deepest heartfelt happiness in His mother, father, relatives, and close
friends. Once a renunciate arrived at the house of Nityananda 

Prabhu and prayed to the boy's father for his son. Lord Nityananda was placed
in the hands of the renunciate and left to visit the holy 

places of pilgrimage, wandering throughout the length and breadth of India. Let
us eternally worship that great personality Sri 

Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is
none other than Lord Krsna.


 


7)
Nityananda travelled from place to place with the crest jewel of the renounced
order, Sri Madhavendra Puri. In the pure association of 

Madhavendra Puri, Lord Nityananda experienced the most joyful symptoms of
ecstasy. After this, the Lord journeyed to Navadvipa, 

where He eagerly waited for Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu to reveal His benevolent
nature to the world. Shortly following Nityananda's 

arrival, Lord Caitanyadeva Himself, in the company of Srinivasa Pandita and Haridasa
Thakura, went to the house of Sri Nandanacarya 

and found Nitai there. Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri
Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the association 

of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.



8) Nityananda Prabhu was ordered by that golden moon, Sriman Mahaprabhu, to
deliver the masses by the wide distribution of Lord Krsna's holy names. One
evening, Lord Nityananda encountered those two drunken and sinful brothers,
Jagai and Madhai, who were previously brahma-daitya demons of the first order,
acting under the devastating spell of Kali-yuga. Suddenly, Nitai was attacked
by Madhai, whereupon His body became smeared with blood. In response, Lord
Nitai exhibited deep affection for the welfare of the two brothers and rescued
them from their abominable condition. Let us eternally worship that great
personality Sri Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the association of Sri
Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.


 


9)
Lord Gauranga instructed His family members and followers to wear pieces of
Lord Nityananda's kaupina respectfully on their bodies. So pure and impeccable
is the character of Nitai that even if He is seen holding the hand of a
Muslim's wife and carrying a bottle of wine, nonetheless He remains supremely
worshippable by the great demigods such as Lord Brahma. Lord Nityananda is also
the desirable object of those exalted devotees who can steal away the heart of
the Lord. Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri Nityanandacandra,
who freely grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is none other than
Lord Krsna.


 


10)
Accepting the renounced order of life and distributing the Lord's holy names,
Lord Gauranga chased after those souls who had been 

spoiled by the doctrines of dry argumentative logic and motivated fruitive
activity. Like Lord Gauranga's own shadow, Nitai Prabhu accompanied the Lord
over land and through rivers, waterways, and jungles. In addition, Lord
Nityananda is the desired goal of all 

Gaurangadeva's endeavors. Let us eternally worship that grand personality Sri
Nityanandacandra, who can freely grant the association of that golden Lord Sri
Gaurangadeva, who is none other than Lord Krsna.



11) Day and night Lord Caitanya was intoxicated with the intense desire to
taste the sweetness of Sri Radhika's divine love for Sri Krsna.
Â  
Sriman Mahaprabhu instructed Lord Nityananda
and His associates to go out and profusely distribute the holy names of Lord
Krsna. However, Lord Nityananda instead plentifully distributed Lord Gauranga's
name, the most precious fortune available to the living entities, with no
impediment at all. Let us eternally worship that great personality Sri
Nityanandacandra, who freely grants the association of Sri Gaurangadeva, who is
none other than Lord Krsna.



12) O Nityananda Prabhu, emperor amidst the personal associates of Sriman
Mahaprabhu! Kindly grant this fallen soul deep and resolute faith in that pure
and divine figure of Sri Gauranga. Lord Gauranga's personality exclusively
embodies the sweet nectar relished deep within the devotional mellows of Sri
Sri Radha-Krsna's pastimes. But if Your lotus feet are overlooked, then all
so-called devotional 

orations and prayers meant for the highest worship become false, like a dream.
I worship You, that great personality Nityanandacandra, who openly bestows
shelter to the most fallen souls, freely granting the association of Sri
Gaurangadeva.


 


REMARKS/EXTRA INFORMATION:


No
Extra Information available for this song!


 


UPDATED:
 July 4, 2009