+++
title = "Jambunadosnisa Viraji"
date = "2024-08-07"
+++

# Jambunadosnisa Viraji
[**![http://kksongs.org/image_files/image002.jpg](http://kksongs.org/image_files/image002.jpg)**](http://kksongs.org/)

**_Krsna Kirtana Songs est. 2001_**                                                                                                                                                 **_www.kksongs.org_**

**[Home](http://kksongs.org/)** **⇒** **[Song Lyrics](http://kksongs.org/lyrics.html)** **⇒** **[J](http://kksongs.org/songs/song_j.html)**

**Song Name: Jambunadosnisa Viraji**

**Official Name: Govinda Devastakam**

**Author:** [**Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura**](http://kksongs.org/authors/list/vct.html)

**Book Name: [Stavamrta Lahari](http://kksongs.org/authors/literature/stavamrta_lahari.html)**

**Language: [Sanskrit](http://kksongs.org/language/list/sanskrit.html)**

**LYRICS**

(1)  
jāmbūnadoṣṇīṣa-virāji-muktā-  
mālā-maṇi-dyoti-śikhaṇḍakasya  
bhańgyā nṛṇāḿ lolupayan dṛśaḥ śrī-  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(2)

kapolayoḥ kuṇḍala-lāsya-hāsya  
ccavi-cchaṭā-cumbitayor yugena  
sammohayan sambhajatāḿ dhiyaḥ śrī-  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(3)

sva-preyasī-locana-koṇa-śīdhu-  
prāptyai puro-varti-janekṣaṇena  
bhāvaḿ kam api udgamayan budhānām  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(4)

vāma-pragaṇḍārpita-gaṇḍa-bhāsvat-  
tāṭańka-lolāka-kānti-siktaiḥ  
bhrū-valganair unmadaya kula-strīr  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(5)

dūre sthitās tā muralī-ninādaiḥ  
sva-saurabhair mudrita-karṇa-pālīḥ  
nāsārudho hṛd-gata eva karṣan  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(6)

navīna-lāvaṇya-bharaiḥ kṣitau śrī-  
rūpānurāgambu-nidhi-prakāśaiḥ  
sataś camatkāra-vataḥ prakurvan  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(7)

kalpa-drumādho-maṇi-mandirāntaḥ  
śrī-yoga-pīṭhāmburu hāsyayā svaḿ  
upāsayaḿs tantra-vido pi mantrair  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(8)

mahābhiṣeka-kṣaṇa-sarva-vāso  
'lańkṛty-anańgī-karaṇocchalantyā  
sarvāńga-bhāsākulayaḿs tri-lokīm  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

(9)

govindadevāṣṭakam etad uccaiḥ  
paṭhet tadīyāńghri-niviṣṭa-dhīr yaḥ  
taḿ majjayann eva kṛpā-pravāhair  
govindadevaḥ śaraṇaḿ mamāstu

**TRANSLATION**

1) "May Lord Govindadeva, who charms the eyes of all living beings with the graceful movement of the peacock feather in His golden crown shining with pearls and gems, be my shelter."

2) "May Lord Govindadeva, who charms the hearts of the devotees' with His cheeks which are kissed by the splendour of His smile and the dancing of His earrings, be my shelter."

3) "May Lord Govindadeva who, by glimpsing at His beloved to attain Her nectarean sidelong glance, provokes the love of all the demigoddesses, be my shelter."

4) "May Lord Govindadeva, who entices the pious cowherd girls with the charming movements of His eyebrows, which are enhanced by the beauty of His moving locks of hair, lustrous earrings, and His cheek placed upon His left shoulder, be my shelter."

5) " He enters into the hearts of the cowherd damsels and draws the to him, though they stand afar, blocking their ears from the sound of His flute and their noses from the wonderful scent of His body. May Lord Govindadeva be my shelter."

6) "He fills the devotees on earth with astonishment by the weight of His youthful beauty and the unlimited ocean of His love. May Lord Govindadeva be my shelter."

7) Those learned in the scriptures worship Him with mantras as He sits in the lotus-like yoga-pitha in a gem-studded palace beneath a grove of wish-fulfilling trees. May Lord Govindadeva be my shelter."

8) "He is as handsome as the god of love (Ananga) and is dressed and decorated as if for a royal coronation. He enthralls all the residents of the three worlds with His beautiful form. May Lord Govindadeva be my shelter."

9) "One who reads aloud this Govindadevastakam and meditates upon the Lord’s lotus feet, is thrown into a river of mercy by the Lord Himself. May Lord Govindadeva be my shelter."

**Remarks/ Extra Information****:**

No Extra Information available for this song!

**UPDATED:** January 29, 2017